content/blog/website-rebuild.md, before:

---
title: 'Website rebuild'
date: '2021-12-30'
description: "I've rebuilt this site multiple times locally, but now it's in production. Here's what I've changed"
tags: ['Vue', 'Nuxt', 'Netlify', 'Markdown', 'Responsive', 'Front-end', 'CSS', 'HTML', 'JS']
category: 'Web Development'
---

This is version 10, I think, of my new site. I've been playing around with a new "design" for some time and kept
putting it to a side and starting from scratch... several times.

I've had a holding page up for the last 2 months - I didn't want to pay hosting for a site that was not being
utilised.

#### Tech stack
I've moved away from WordPress, hooray!

- Nuxt
- NuxtContent
- Netlify
- Vue
- BitBucket
- Sass
- TailwindCss

All my content lives in a [GitRepo](https://bitbucket.org/KamBanwait/scriptedpixelsrebuild/src/master/), so it's version controlled and, most importantly, open for everyone and available for features like [Netlify hooks](https://docs.netlify.com/configure-builds/build-hooks/). This allows me to automatically deploy my site when a new change is pushed to a specific branch. A simple CI/CD setup.

Commit message:

Updates website build post with more content

content/blog/website-rebuild.md, after:

---
title: 'Website rebuild'
date: '2021-12-30'
description: "I've rebuilt this site multiple times locally, but now it's in production. Here's what I've changed"
tags: ['Vue', 'Nuxt', 'Netlify', 'Markdown', 'Responsive', 'Front-end', 'CSS', 'HTML', 'JS']
category: 'Web Development'
---

This must be version 10 of my new site. I've been playing around with a new website for some time and I kept
putting it to a side, getting frustrated I didn't complete it, and then starting from scratch. I've finally settled down with a tech stack that I'm really happy with using and enjoy working with.

So, I've decided to deploy what I've done so far and I'm forcing myself to make sure my brand and work is up to date.

I'll be backdating some blog posts that I've had in draft format and also be publishing small tips and tricks here and there. The aim is to be pushing up a blog post _atleast_ once a week 📝.

#### Tech stack
I've moved away from WordPress and I'm now building with:

- Nuxt
- NuxtContent
- Netlify
- Vue
- BitBucket
- Sass
- TailwindCss

#### Process
I write all my Work and Blog posts in [markdown](https://www.markdownguide.org). I can use [Vue components](https://vuejs.org/v2/guide/components.html) as well as showcase code snippets within markdown.

To get a post published onto production; all I have to do is commit and push it up to my GitRepo. Netlify takes care of the rest from here. It'll run a command I've given `npm run generate` when it detects an update in my repo. This triggers an NPM task that generates and publishes all the static files to their CDN.

All my content lives in a [GitRepo](https://bitbucket.org/KamBanwait/scriptedpixelsrebuild/src/master/), so it's version controlled and, most importantly, open for everyone and available for features like [Netlify hooks](https://docs.netlify.com/configure-builds/build-hooks/). This allows me to automatically deploy my site when a new change is pushed to a specific branch. A simple CI/CD setup.
